---
layout: default
title: Project Structure
index: 3
---

# Project Structure

Flask provides [great documentation](https://exploreflask.com/organizing.html) on best-practices for organizing your project. For this sample blogging application, we're going to keep it relatively simple:

```
run.py
config.py
requirements.txt
blog/
	__init__.py
	models.py
	views.py
	static/
		style.css
	templates/
		index.html
		register.html
		login.html
		logout.html
		profile.html
```

Recall that we created `requirements.txt` in the previous step. Typically, the bulk of the action will take place in `models.py` (where most of the application logic resides) and `views.py` (where we'll define our 'views', or site pages). The `__init__.py` file in the `blog/` directory allows it to be used as a module. That is, you'll be able import it like any other package.

According to Flask's documentation, `__init__.py` within the `blog/` directory should be used to "initialize your application and bring together all of the various components." My `__init__.py` thus looks like this:

```python
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)
app.config.from_object('config')

import models
import views
```

Next, `run.py` is "the file that is invoked to start up a development server. It gets a copy of the app from your package and runs it. This won’t be used in production, but it will see a lot of mileage in development." My `run.py` file looks like this:

```python
from blog import *
app.run()
```

Finally, the `config.py` file "contains most of the configuration variables that your app needs." My `config.py` file looks like this:

```python
DEBUG = True
SECRET_KEY = 'super secret key'
```

Setting `DEBUG` to `True` allows you to see the stacktrace when anything goes wrong. When putting your application into production, however, `DEBUG` should be set to `False`. Setting a `SECRET_KEY` allows you to use sessions, which will be explained later.

Next, we'll go through each view defined in `views.py` and discuss the corresponding logic in `models.py`.